The paper presents an efficient cloud resource provisioning approach. The Software as a Service (SaaS) provider leases resources from cloud providers and also leases software as services to SaaS users. The SaaS providers aim at minimizing the payment of using VMs from cloud providers, and want to maximize the profit earned through serving the SaaS users’ requests. The SaaS providers also guarantee meeting quality of service (QoS)
requirements of the SaaS users. The cloud provider is to maximize the profit without exceeding the upper bound of energy consumption of cloud provider for provisioning virtual machines (VMs) to the SaaS provider. The SaaS users purpose to obtain the optimized QoS to accomplish their jobs with a limited budget and deadline. The proposed optimal cloud resource provisioning algorithm includes two sub-algorithms at different levels:
interaction between the SaaS user and SaaS provider at the application layer and interaction between the SaaS provider and cloud resource provider at the resource layer. Simulations are conducted to compare the performance of proposed cloud resource provisioning algorithm with related work.
Cloud computing refers to both the applications delivered as services over the Internet and the hardware and systems software in the datacenters that provide those services [1, 2]. Cloud computing is characterized as making services available on demand [3]. Cloud computing delivers infrastructure, platform, and software (applications) as services, 
which are made available to consumers as subscription-based services under the pay-as-you-go model. In industry these services are referred to as Infrastructure as a Service (IaaS), Platform as a Service (PaaS), and Software as a Service (SaaS), respectively .
Cloud management is responsible for all resources used by all the applications deployed in the cloud. Clouds depend on virtualization of resources to provide management combined with separation of users.

Some cloud computing providers employ the utility computing model, which is analogous to how traditional utility services (such as electricity) are consumed, whereas others bill on a subscription basis. In Amazon EC2, users pay on the basis of number of type of instances they use, where an instance is characterized on basis of parameters like CPU cores, memory, and disk capacity [5, 6]. With a Pay-per-Use model,
cloud resource provisioning is taken to satisfy the SaaS user’s needs with reducing cost while maximizing the profit of the SaaS provider. Reducing energy consumption is also important for cloud resource providers to decrease operating costs and maximize the revenue of cloud provider [7, 8, 25]. Therefore, how to serve request of the SaaS user to meet Quality of Service (QoS) needs and maximize the profit of the SaaS provider and cloud resource provider becomes an urgent problem to be solved in cloud computing environment.

The paper presents an efficient cloud resource provisioning approach, which is beneficial for the SaaS users, SaaS provider and cloud resource provider. The SaaS provider leases resources from cloud providers and also leases software as services to the SaaS users. The SaaS providers aim at minimizing the payment of using Virtual Machines (VMs) from cloud providers, and want to maximize the profit earned through serving the SaaS users’ requests. The SaaS providers also guarantee meeting QoS requirement of the SaaS users.
The cloud provider is to maximize the profit without exceeding the upper bound of energy consumption of cloud provider for provisioning VMs to the SaaS provider. The SaaS users purpose to obtain the optimized QoS to accomplish their jobs with a limited budget and deadline. The proposed optimal cloud resource provisioning algorithm includes two sub-algorithms at different levels:
interaction between the SaaS user and provider at the application layer and interaction between the SaaS provider and cloud resource provider at the resource layer. Simulations are conducted to compare the performance of proposed cloud resource provisioning algorithm with related work.

The rest of the paper is structured as followings. Section 2 discusses the related works. Section 3 presents optimal resources provisioning in cloud computing environment which includes the optimization for interaction between the SaaS provider and cloud resource provider, and the optimization for interaction between the SaaS user and SaaS provider. Section 4 describes optimal resources provisioning algorithm in cloud computing. 
In Sect. 5 the experiments and analysis are conducted and discussed. In Sect. 6, an application example is given. Section 7 gives the conclusions to the paper.