Like  real  clouds  which  are  the  collection  of  water  molecules,  the  term   ̳cloud‘  in  cloud  computing  is  the collection of networks. The user can use the modalities of cloud computing boundlessly whenever demanded. Instead of setting up their own physical infrastructure, the users ordinarily prefer a mediator provider for the service of the internet in cloud computing. 
The users have to pay only for the services they had used . The workload can be shifted to reduce the workload in cloud computing. A load of service is handled by the networks which forms the cloud that's why the load on local computers is not heavy while running an application [1]. So the requisition of hardware and software at the user side  is decreased.  All we need to have a web browser to use cloud computing. 
All we  need to have a web  browser  like chrome to use cloud computing. Following are the key features of cloud computing: 
Resource Pooling and Elasticity  Self-Service and On-Demand Services I.III Pricing I.IV Quality of Service  There  are  three  services  provided  by  cloud  computing  that  are  Software  as  a  Service  (SaaS),  Platform  as  a Service  (PaaS)  and  Infrastructure  as  a  Service  (IaaS) .  
The  basic  examples  of  cloud  computing  which are  used  by general people in daily life are Facebook, YouTube, Dropbox, and Gmail etc. It offers scalability, flexibility, agility, and simplicity that's why its use is rapidly increasing in the enterprises.  
Network of Cloud  .  EVOLUTION OF CLOUD COMPUTING One day in a speech at MIT around in 1960 John McCarthy indicated that like water and electricity, computing can also be sold like a utility. And in 1999, the Salesforce Company started distributing the applications to the customers 
 Public Cloud: The public cloud is a computing service supplied by the third party providers atop the public internet [6]. These services are available  for any user who wants to use them and they  have to pay only  for the services they consumed.
 Private  Cloud: The  computing  services  provided  over  the  internet  or  private  network  come  under  the private cloud and these services are offered only to the selected users in place of common people 
A higher security and privacy is delegated by private clouds through the firewall and internal hosting .
 Hybrid  Cloud: Hybrid  cloud  is  the  combination  of  public  cloud  and  private  cloud.
  In  the  hybrid  cloud, each cloud can be managed independently but data and applications can be shared among the clouds in the hybrid cloud